.TH CONTROLCENTER-SEND 1 "2026-03-05" "1.0.0" "Control Center Manual"
.SH NAME
controlcenter\-send \- send status commands to a running Control Center instance
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B controlcenter\-send
[\fB\-\-host\fR \fIHOST\fR]
[\fB\-\-port\fR \fIPORT\fR]
[\fB\-\-timeout\fR \fISECS\fR]
\fICOMMAND\fR
[\fIARGS\fR ...]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B controlcenter\-send
is a command-line tool that connects to the TCP status server embedded
in a running \fBcontrolcenter\fR(1) instance and sends a single JSON command.
The server's JSON reply is printed to standard output.
.PP
Both IPv4 and IPv6 addresses are supported; the correct socket family is
selected automatically via \fBgetaddrinfo\fR(3).
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.BI \-\-host\  HOST
Hostname or IP address of the running Control Center.
Default: \fI127.0.0.1\fR.
Use \fI::1\fR for the IPv6 loopback address.
.TP
.BI \-\-port\  PORT
TCP port.  Must match the \fBstatus_server.port\fR value in the
Control Center configuration.  Default: \fI9876\fR.
.TP
.BI \-\-timeout\  SECS
Connection and receive timeout in seconds.  Default: \fI5.0\fR.
.SH COMMANDS
.TP
.BI set-status\  INDICATOR\  STATE\  [MESSAGE]
Set the state of a named status indicator.
.RS
.TP
.I INDICATOR
The name of the indicator as defined in the configuration file (case-sensitive).
.TP
.I STATE
One of: \fBok\fR, \fBwarning\fR, \fBerror\fR, \fBunknown\fR.
.TP
.I MESSAGE
Optional human-readable message displayed inside the indicator tile.
Multiple words are joined with spaces.
.RE
.TP
.BI set-message\  LEVEL\  TEXT
Display a message banner below the status indicators.
.RS
.TP
.I LEVEL
One of: \fBinfo\fR, \fBwarning\fR, \fBerror\fR.
.TP
.I TEXT
The message text.  Multiple words are joined with spaces.
.RE
.TP
.B clear-message
Clear the message banner.
.TP
.B reload-all
Reload all embedded web pages in the grid.
.TP
.B get-status
Print the current state of every status indicator as a JSON object.
.TP
.B ping
Test connectivity.  The server replies with \fI{"status": "pong"}\fR.
.SH EXIT STATUS
.TP
.B 0
Command was accepted and the server returned a successful status.
.TP
.B 1
A connection error occurred, or the server returned an error status.
.SH EXAMPLES
Set the DAQ indicator to OK:
.PP
.nf
  controlcenter-send set-status DAQ ok "All systems nominal"
.fi
.PP
Set the Trigger indicator to warning with a message:
.PP
.nf
  controlcenter-send set-status Trigger warning "High occupancy detected"
.fi
.PP
Display an error banner:
.PP
.nf
  controlcenter-send set-message error "Run aborted by operator"
.fi
.PP
Clear the message banner:
.PP
.nf
  controlcenter-send clear-message
.fi
.PP
Query current indicator states:
.PP
.nf
  controlcenter-send get-status
.fi
.PP
Connect to a Control Center on a remote host via IPv6:
.PP
.nf
  controlcenter-send --host ::1 --port 9876 ping
  controlcenter-send --host 2001:db8::1 --port 9876 set-status HLT error
.fi
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR controlcenter (1)
.SH AUTHORS
Mu2e DAQ Group.
