.TH CONTROLCENTER 1 "2026-03-05" "1.0.0" "Control Center Manual"
.SH NAME
controlcenter \- aggregate and display web pages in a configurable GUI grid
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B controlcenter
[\fB\-\-config\fR \fIPATH\fR]
[\fB\-\-version\fR]
[\fB\-h\fR]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B controlcenter
is a PyQt6-based desktop application that loads a set of web pages and
displays them in a resizable, user-configurable grid.  A row of large
coloured status indicators is shown at the top of the window, and an
embedded TCP server accepts JSON commands that change indicator states
or display messages.
.PP
The application is configured via a YAML file (default:
\fIconfig/controlcenter.yaml\fR relative to the project root).
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.BI \-\-config\  PATH
Path to the YAML configuration file.
Default: \fI<project-root>/config/controlcenter.yaml\fR
.TP
.B \-\-version
Print the version string and exit.
.TP
.BR \-h ", " \-\-help
Print a short help message and exit.
.SH CONFIGURATION FILE
The configuration file is a YAML document with the following top-level keys.
.SS title
String.  The window title.  Default: \fI"Control Center"\fR.
.SS grid
Mapping with optional keys \fBrows\fR and \fBcols\fR (integers, 1–8).
Sets the initial grid dimensions.
.nf
grid:
  rows: 2
  cols: 2
.fi
.SS status_indicators
A list of indicator definitions.  Each entry has:
.RS
.TP
.B name
Display name of the indicator (string).
.TP
.B state
Initial state: \fBok\fR, \fBwarning\fR, \fBerror\fR, or \fBunknown\fR.
.RE
.nf
status_indicators:
  - name: DAQ
    state: unknown
  - name: Trigger
    state: ok
.fi
.SS pages
A list of page definitions.  Each entry has:
.RS
.TP
.B name
Display name shown in the cell title bar (string).
.TP
.B url
The URL to load in the embedded browser (string).
.TP
.B position
Optional \fI[row, col]\fR list (zero-indexed).  Pages without a position
are placed left-to-right, top-to-bottom after explicitly placed pages.
.RE
.nf
pages:
  - name: Grafana
    url: http://localhost:3000
    position: [0, 0]
  - name: Logbook
    url: http://localhost:8081
    position: [1, 0]
.fi
.SS status_server
Mapping that configures the embedded TCP command server:
.RS
.TP
.B host
Bind address.  Use \fI"127.0.0.1"\fR for IPv4 loopback,
\fI"::1"\fR for IPv6 loopback, \fI""\fR or \fI"::"\fR to
listen on all interfaces (IPv6 dual-stack).  Default: \fI"127.0.0.1"\fR.
.TP
.B port
TCP port.  Default: \fI9876\fR.
.RE
.nf
status_server:
  host: "127.0.0.1"
  port: 9876
.fi
.SH GUI USAGE
.SS Status Indicators
The large coloured tiles at the top of the window reflect the state of
named system components.  Colours:
.RS
.TP
.B Green
OK
.TP
.B Amber
Warning
.TP
.B Red
Error
.TP
.B Grey
Unknown / not yet set
.RE
Clicking an indicator has no action by default; use \fBcontrolcenter\-send\fR(1)
to change states programmatically.
.SS Grid Controls
A toolbar below the status bar provides \fBRows\fR and \fBCols\fR spinners.
Adjust the values and click \fBApply\fR to resize the grid.  Existing page
assignments are preserved (left-to-right, top-to-bottom); new cells show
a blank page.
.SS Rearranging Pages
Left-click and drag a cell onto another cell to swap their page assignments.
Right-click a cell to:
.RS
.IP \(bu 4
\fBReload\fR — reload the embedded page.
.IP \(bu 4
\fBSet URL...\fR — navigate to a different URL.
.IP \(bu 4
\fBRename...\fR — change the cell's display name.
.IP \(bu 4
\fBClear (blank)\fR — navigate the cell to \fIabout:blank\fR.
.RE
.SS Saving the Layout
\fBFile \(-> Save Layout\fR writes the current grid dimensions and page
assignments back into the configuration YAML file, so they persist across
restarts.
.SH STATUS COMMAND PROTOCOL
The embedded server accepts newline-delimited JSON objects over TCP.
Each object must have a \fBcommand\fR key.  The server replies with a
newline-delimited JSON object.
.PP
See \fBcontrolcenter\-send\fR(1) for a convenient command-line client,
and the project documentation in \fIdoc/\fR for raw protocol details.
.SH EXAMPLES
Start with the default configuration:
.PP
.nf
  cd /path/to/mu2edaq-controlcenter
  ./venv/bin/python src/controlcenter.py
.fi
.PP
Start with a custom configuration file:
.PP
.nf
  ./venv/bin/python src/controlcenter.py --config /etc/cc/mysite.yaml
.fi
.SH FILES
.TP
.I config/controlcenter.yaml
Default configuration file.
.TP
.I src/controlcenter.py
Main entry point.
.TP
.I src/controlcenter_send.py
Command-line status client.
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR controlcenter-send (1)
.SH AUTHORS
Mu2e DAQ Group.
